
# Introduction

UK Biobank (UKBB) is a unique epidemiological effort which aims to prospectively
identify potential relationships between disease and associated risk factors
through the leveraging of comprehensive individualized medical and
sociodemographic data. Enrollment began in 2006 and continued for four years
ultimately resulting in a cohort of approximately 500,000 individuals. Volunteer
age criteria was limited to birth years between 1934 and 1971---an optimal range
for observing the onset of certain diseases and their subsequent progression.
Continued monitoring of a significant subset is expected to continue for at
least 30 years facilitated, in part, by coordination with the National Health
Services of the UK.  This has resulted in several studies exploring a wide
variety of research topics (e.g., the relationship between age and cognitive
decline [@Cornelis:2019aa], the association of polygenic profiles and mental
health [@Hagenaars:2016wc], and potential collider bias in COVID-19 assessment
[@Griffith:2020wt]).

An integral component of UKBB is the subset of approximately 50,000 subjects who
underwent comprehensive imaging batteries, including neuroimaging
[@Miller:2016wc;@Alfaro-Almagro:2018wi], specifically structural T1-weighted
MPRAGE and T2-FLAIR MRI; diffusion-weighted MRI; resting-state and task-based
functional MRI; and susceptibility-weighted MRI. Employing specialized
processing pipelines, these raw imaging data are used to generate various
quantities, referred to as image-derived phenotypes (IDPs), for use as potential
biomarkers.  A sampling of resulting image-based research studies evinces
insights into such topics as hippocampal volumetric nomograms across age
[@Nobis:2019ur]; population modeling of age, fluid intelligence, and neuroticism
[@Dadi:2021wb]; and brain structural changes associated with COVID-19 and the
corresponding cognitive effects [@Douaud:2022tc].

Facilitating the majority of existing UKBB imaging-related research is the FMRIB
Software Library (FSL) [@Jenkinson:2012wi] which has been specifically tailored
to provide UKBB IDPs [@Miller:2016wc;@Alfaro-Almagro:2018wi]. For the structural
data alone, this includes global and cortical IDPs from FMRIB's Automated
Segmentation Tool (FAST) [@Zhang:2001ve], subcortical IDPs from FMRIB's
Integrated Registration and Segmentation Tool  (FIRST) [@Patenaude:2011vy], and
white matter hyperintensity (WMH) load using the Brain Intensity AbNormality
Classification Algorithm (BIANCA) [@Griffanti:2016wd]. UKBB was subsequently
augmented with FreeSurfer-based IDPs [@Fischl:2012ws] which include both the
standard "aseg" segmentation, hippocampal subfield [@Iglesias:2015aa], and
amygdala nuclei [@Saygin:2017wl] pipeline outputs.
<!-- Importantly, these data have
been generated by the respective package developers mitigating quality
assurance/control issues.-->

Analogously, the Advanced Normalization Tools Ecosystem (ANTsX) is a collection
of interrelated, open-source software libraries for biological and medical image
processing and analysis [@Tustison:2021aa] with developmental roots in
high-performing medical image registration [@Avants:2011wx;@Avants:2014aa] and
built on the Insight Toolkit (ITK) [@Yoo:2005uf]. ANTsX-based IDPs have
demonstrated utility in several studies spanning a variety of organ systems,
species, and imaging modalities (e.g.,
[@Ding:2022tk;@Diamond:2022ty;@Kini:2021ul]). These IDPs include those which
have been previously reported, such as global brain tissue volumes
[@Avants:2011uf] and more localized, FreeSurfer-analogous cortical thickness
values [@Tustison:2014ab;@Tustison:2019aa;@Tustison:2021aa] averaged over the
Desikan-Killiany-Tourville (DKT) regions [@Klein:2012aa].  In addition, recently
developed ANTsX functionality includes a medial temporal lobe (MTL) parcellation
framework known as "DeepFLASH," a neural network for segmenting hippocampal
subfields and extra-hippocampal regions which extends previous work
[@Reagh:2018aa].  Newly introduced functionality also includes regional 
cerebellum measurements based on the Schmahmann atlas [@Schmahmann:1999aa] 
including cortical thickness (cf [@Das:2009uv]).

Characterizing the respective sets of FSL, FreeSurfer, and ANTsX IDPs and their
mutual relationships can guide researchers in their usage as there are both
significant overlap and notable differences between these measures.  And
although comparison between sets is potentially insightful, a focused,
package-wise comparison using UKBB is difficult due to 1) the absence of
complete, individual IDP correspondence across packages and 2) the general
purpose of UKBB data (in contrast, for example, to the ADNI data
[@Weiner:2012tf] set which focuses on Alzheimer's disease). Regarding IDP
differences, even between identically defined IDPs (e.g., hippocampal volume),
_observer bias_ is a possible source of measurement variance
[@Caliskan:2017ta] where "observer bias" is considered in the context of casting
computational measurement tools as "observers" with "observer bias" due to the
specific set of choices that results in the final numerical measurement.  These
choices can include (but are certainly not limited to) modeling considerations,
preferences with respect to anatomical definitional ambiguities, and the set of
parameters used to run the corresponding software. Note that this variance is
not indicative of inaccuracy, per se, such as with _instrumentation bias_ where
sub-optimal calibration of software is used as a straw-man for comparative
purposes [@Tustison:2013ut]. Rather, observer bias is supplemental to
conventional signal noise considerations as a potential source of measurement
discrepancy which can provide insight when considered within the appropriate
context.  For example, differing labeling protocols for specific anatomical
structures, such as the hippocampal subfields and parahippocampal subregions,
can reveal differences and those differences can motivate and facilitate
harmonization [@Yushkevich:2015aa].

To this end, in addition to the core contribution of providing ANTsX-based UKBB
IDPs, we explore the similarities and differences between the respective sets of
structural IDPs and their combination.  Given the usage and availability of
several powerful machine learning (ML) techniques, we quantify performance using
multiple predictive approaches for tabulated IDP data including gradient boosted
decision trees (i.e., XGBoost [@Chen:2016aa]) and tailored deep learning
networks (specifically, TabNet [@Arik:2021aa]). Such frameworks potentially have
the additional advantage of providing clinical interpretability of individual
features (e.g., SHAP [@Lundberg:2017aa]).  For example, one of the most
well-studied neuroimaging structural correlative relationships is chronological
and so-called "brain age" and their health-dependent divergence
[@Franke:2019aa].  Such subject-specific, single values are estimated using a
variety of ML approaches and IDPs.  Although establishing normative values over
the human life span has clinical utility, as pointed out in Nyberg
[@Nyberg:2020vh], the single-valued brain age is at the extreme end of an
"optimal balance between integration and diversification" required for
neuroimaging studies.  A single score or index most likely does not capture the
extent of the non-linearity and heterogeneity of age and other effects on brain
structure [@Smith:2020vb]. In contrast, the type of feature-based investigation
performed here reveals insight into such questions as:  "In what ways do the different
IDP sets perform in terms of their predictive capabilities?," "How does this
performance vary with different sociodemographic variables?," "In what ways are features
complementary and can their combined effect improve prediction performance?," and
"How does this performance vary with ML technique?".









